We're entering a period where there is
going to be much more hardware testing.
So, I actually think that we are like
the pendulum is going to swing back. I
think we are coming to grasp with how
little we actually understand about how
physical systems operate in the world
and how like lacking we are from a data
perspective. It's going to be a a race
to try to like collect this data and
actually develop these these models. I
always think of it as like if you have
AGI designing like a video game for your
child, like you might let them play it
without it being like rigorously tested.
Just a video game. But if you had AGI
like building a toy for your child, you
would like really want to make sure that
[music] it wasn't physically dangerous.
It's like the physical world will just
always be different cuz it's what we
live in.
>> [music]
>> Cameron, Jason, thank you so much for
joining us today. Thanks for having us.
Nominal is the all-in-one data and AI
platform for hardware engineering. You
are used by amazing companies from
Anduril all the way to the Corvette
racing team in industries including
aerospace and defense, robotics,
autonomy and more. And I think one
notable stat you just shared with me,
you're used by four of the top five
defense primes in the US.
Congratulations on on everything so far
including the the recent race. Thanks so
much. Yeah, thank you. Let's jump right
in.
You've talked about how we're entering a
new age of hardware
and that, you know, America is rapidly
reindustrializing its industrial base.
Can you just discuss that? Yeah.
I think
we we talk a lot about there there are a
few I think tailwinds macro tailwinds
that that nominal is not really
benefiting from now in terms of
industrialization and in hardware
development. Um
really when when we think about that,
we have this huge uh compression in
timeline. Uh people are trying to build
and field hardware products faster than
they ever have before.
Um we think hardware testing plays a
particular part in that and and we can
cover that in much more detail. I think
re-industrialization more broadly, um
more money is going into building
hardware products uh really really
rapidly. Um particularly, you know, an
area where where we're very prevalent in
is in aerospace and defense. Um and I
think really the paradigm of how
hardware is being developed is shifting
really really rapidly. I'll give a
little sort of vignette I think of how
we kind of think about it. Um you know,
I think if you look back at um
core software development and you think
about um what kind of happened over the
past two decades, I think one really
good way to to think about it is
actually talking about uh GitHub as an
example.
And I'll I'll use that to talk about,
you know, GitHub is a version control
system, right? A VCS. But if you go back
and like you do a little history, it's
like companies that were building pure
software used to uh
you know,
it they would locally manage versions of
their their software that they would
develop. Um they would, you know,
eventually they started to centralize
that internally, but still within the
company. It's all internally managed.
And then eventually it got so good it
became productized and outsourced. And,
you know, venture dollars pour in and
that was really I think the first of uh
you know, the creation of something like
like GitHub, but I think all of the sort
of CICD and and DevOps, you know, tools
that we we take for granted uh today.
And and the software testing problem
really is a solved problem. But that
same luxury does not exist for the
hundreds of thousands of hardware
engineers that are now at the frontier
of software defined hardware, autonomy,
and robotics. And that's really the
space that that Nominal is playing in.
What do you think is driving the, you
know, hardware feels hot again? I have
so many hardware companies on my on my
calendar every week. Seems like there's
a whole generation of founders that
feels regalvanized. They've been trained
at the likes of Anduril, SpaceX, Tesla.
Like, what what do you think is
driving it? Feels like there's something
in the water in the kind of
reindustrialization kind of startup
community.
>> Yeah, I think it's probably there's
probably a a positive frame answer to
that question and probably like a a
negative frame answer to the question,
too. I think the positive frame is I
think that we're just like I think
humanity is sort of reconciling there's
like these big oscillations. I think
with like a lot of the ambition and a
lot of the things we want to exist in
the world are in the physical world. And
I think people are just sort of coming
around
again two decades of like the
SaaS-ification of the world and I think
people are just excited to build real
things again. And I think particularly
companies like SpaceX, like Anduril,
like Tesla I think have proven that if
you make investments in the the
infrastructure and the tools to do this
type of hardware development, it's a
massive competitive advantage. That's a
positive frame. I think that the
opposite frame I mean I think is, you
know, we can talk about, you know, AI
and how it is impacting many many worlds
here. I think, you know, hardware is
still a world where there is
defensibility in itself because
hardware's hard, right? I think there's
there's it's capital intensive. It's
difficult to bend metal and steel and
electronics and and, you know, all of
this world is like it's very difficult.
And so I think that,
you know, there's there's people excited
about it from
an investment perspective as well.
Awesome.
So,
one of the things that we've always
observed is that there's a big gap
between what works in simulation and
what works in real life. What's that gap
today? How do you like help
founders with that gap? And how do you
make it
concrete for them? Yeah, I'll start and
then I'll Jason I'll I'll pass to you as
as more of the expert. But,
I lived I lived this problem very very
viscerally at my time at Anduril. I got
there around sort of 2018-2019 frame.
The the was very early in there was I
think it was very in vogue particularly
then to try and simulate everything.
Um and I think that the real power comes
from blending simulation outputs of
models with real-world telemetry sensor
data logs coming off of physical
systems. And the advantage is being able
to do that continuously and very
iteratively. Um I saw the pendulum swing
to let's do everything in simulation.
Let's like get as early as we can in the
design life cycle. Like we can solve
problems there. Um but we sort of always
joke like physics gets a vote. It still
gets a vote. Um and we have started on
Yeah. Physics gets a vote?
>> Yeah, physics physics [laughter] gets a
vote. I mean, we we particularly have
started with hardware testing as the
like narrow kind of wedge that we've
we've built nominal around in in these
sort of early early years um because
that is where uh software-defined
hardware is like touching reality for
the first time. And I think it is where
most of the it's the tip of the spear
for how software is going to impact the
you know, physical AI and the
development of systems. Um eventually I
think we will we will spread more and
more into the simulation and in design
world. But um I think being able to like
merge those two is actually where the
advantage comes from. But Yeah, I was
going to say part of the reason our
customers have an appetite to partner
with someone like Nominal is cuz you
know, these hardware organizations 25 or
30 years ago were
um they developed a model of solving
these things in kind of a fragmented
way. So the people who are building your
simulation would be different than the
people who were doing the first
prototype would be different than the
people who are doing the manufacturing.
And as it all becomes more connected, uh
the you know, lack of a common data
platform or infrastructure starts to
really become obvious. So recently I
like I talked to someone who you know,
for 30 years has become like a
specialist. This is at one of the
traditional primes, like a specialist in
their specific proprietary simulation
technology. And while it's amazing like
the lengths that they've gone to, um you
know, it's all getting disrupted very
quickly by the incumbent players like
Anduril. And so, to move at the
the speed that people are kind of
expecting nowadays, you have to make
sure that the,
uh, engineer who is maybe involved at
the early stage of the life cycle can
actually take the logic, the validation
that they're building in a tool like
Nominal and apply it, you know, much,
much later when something's actually out
in the field and they're monitoring
something that's a production use case.
Before you guys started Nominal, what
what did the what did the primes use?
What did Anduril use? What did SpaceX
use to do all this testing and
monitoring and learning to change the
product? Well, so SpaceX is really
interesting to us because, kind of like,
unlike other players, they decided from
the beginning that they had hired some
of the most talented, intelligent,
hardworking engineers on the planet, and
they wanted to empower those engineers.
And they they said that the existing,
uh, software that people use for test,
and especially like test data analysis,
wasn't good enough, and they started to
build something proprietary in-house.
And when we were starting the company
and kind of studying that, we said like,
"Hey, this is a huge reason for their
eventual success." Like, it actually led
to this acceleration. But, you know, a
thousand companies that are now, uh,
being started this year, next year, it
doesn't make sense for all of them to
build a platform like that. So, that's
part of the motivation behind Nominal.
And I'll I'll give I'll give an example
of the many companies that are not
SpaceX or or Anduril or Tesla. Um, I
think this this sort of status quo in
the industry for test data management
is, uh,
is pretty shocking. Um, it still is an
area where for most hardware
development, data is, uh, almost by
default stored locally. So, there's a
lot of like network-accessible storage.
It is still a world where like the cloud
is not, um,
like common.
Uh, it is engineers like downloading
data from a central drive to their local
machine, their laptop to run their own
individual MATLAB or Python or, you
know, insert other parsing or analysis,
you know, software to come to their
individual result. Like, I'm an avionics
engineer,
Jason's a GNC engineer, you're a thermal
engineer. Like, we're all doing our work
independently.
Um and then we were trying to find a
mechanism to like post those insights
and results back um often via
screenshot. Um so so PDFs, PowerPoint
engineering is like still
uh the bleeding edge for like many many
of these these companies. Um and I think
we often talk about
like the early days of of nominal. We we
were trying to like rip the industry
from
uh you know, 2003 to 2019, 2020. Um and
just like good software practices, uh
sound data engineering, like Jason often
talks about, you know, what we built
today at Nominal is is, you know, having
to get uh 11 10 or 11 really really hard
software problems, right? Um to empower
our users. Um and then now we're on a
very exciting journey, I think, of like
of of coming from 2020, 2021 into the
world we're living in today um for our
users, which is um which is pushing the
frontier. Yeah. How much are you
educating
incumbents and like you said you were
working with four out of five defense
primes. How how much are they really
adopting AI? How much are you educating
them on what they need to do
to improve their products? It still
looks like it takes many many years for
them to make any change to their
hardware
products? What as Cameron saying, like
the state of the art here is is kind of
behind. And so as we kind of catch them
up, that's the like necessary first step
to using AI. So like, as someone who
uses AI tools every day, um you know,
you might think it's natural for a
hardware engineer to ask a question
like, "Hey, what happened in the last 50
tests that I ran and is relevant to the
test that I'm looking at now?" But, that
kind of assumes that the data from the
last 50 tests even lives in one place.
And that's kind of the problem that uh
needs to be solved. And the you know,
the primes are interested in solving
that. They recognize the value there and
you know, some of them are getting uh I
would say like tired of trying to build
it in-house themselves and want to
they're having an appetite to work with
a partner like us. A conversation I I
often have with a
uh you know, chief engineer, CIO, CTO,
sort of across the table is like this
this concept that they're well aware
that there is
uh there are insights trapped in their
hardware systems. So, this is the real
world of like data acquisition systems,
test stands, lab testing, power
supplies, instrumentation. Like, that is
their bread and butter for for bringing
their hardware, you know, products to
life. Um and and such a small percentage
of that data is ultimately making it
into some central repository where it
can be sort of structured with metadata,
organized, cataloged. Um just like that
basic step. Um it used to be
digital engineering. I think that was
sort of the the term of art that was
very in vogue. And now, the conversation
is rhyming more with physical AI, but I
think the building blocks um to getting
these organizations ready to build uh
like AI capability and applications on
top of that really starts with that sort
of semantic layer that Nominal provides
in a lot of the way that we catalog this
this hardware data for for our
customers.
And I'll say that like the ambition of
AI here is like it's me really excited
because sometimes it's you know, asking
really interesting questions of like,
"Okay, is there something that my team
didn't catch when they did all the
review of if you have 10,000 sensors
that are each producing a million points
a second?" Like, that's a ton of data
that you know, automation can maybe
surface things we wouldn't otherwise
notice. But, we should recognize that
some of it's also going to just
accelerate the more tedious parts of
data ingestion and data review. So,
right now it might be the case that, you
know, one of our hardware engineering
users every week they want to automate,
"Hey, this data check should be
happening every single time we do a
flight test, even as I'm not becoming
involved in it. We're having to do that
testing at a remote location. There's a
flight operator who's going to be doing
it in my place." Oh, but I still want
that data check to be happening. Like
maybe the friction to them doing that is
they don't want to learn, you know, a
custom domain-specific language for
encoding that check. If they could use,
you know, an English to code prompt in a
tool like Nominal, that might be the
thing that like unlocks them to actually
get that across the line, and then they
can focus on the kind of like more
creative, more judgment, human aspects
of designing hardware systems. You
mentioned the GitHub analogy earlier. If
you map out the hardware design life
cycle, so to speak, I'd imagine there's
there's the design of the thing,
there's the testing of the thing,
there's the manufacturing of the thing,
and then there's the the mothering of
the thing in production. That's what my
simple brain kind of maps it onto. Is Is
that fair? Yes. Yeah. Yes. Yeah.
>> why start with testing? And you
mentioned it's like it's one of the only
it's a category that's been served by
PDFs. Like, you know, design tools,
manufacturing these these each have
their systems of record. So, why why is
testing been neglected today? Yeah, I
think it's really I mean one answer to
the question would be like start with it
because it it has sort of been neglected
and it doesn't really have its system of
record. I mean, one way to frame Nominal
is like we we can be a a form of a
system of record for for for testing
particularly. I think it's like
there's um there's a a quick business
reason I think for starting with it,
which is like it it is an area where I
think demonstrating ROI with speed is
just like so clear um for a customer
result. So, being able to there's sort
of this like mantra in in hardware
development where, you know, testing is
like it's this function there's sort of
incremental improvements you can make,
you know, save seconds that compound to
minutes and hours, and like that's real
value value for a customer that's trying
to field a product in a in a competitive
market, but there's always this sort of
like long tail of risk that everyone
who's been on a major hardware program
knows. Um there's always like something
hidden in the data that they can't sort
of figure out and then it's sort of like
an all hands on deck effort. It can it
can halt programs. Um and so like
Nominal's been able to help customers
sort of I think surface insights there.
I think the the other
answer though is just that like testing
is uh by definition iterative. Like that
is what testing is. It's sort of the the
most classic like uh experimental
independent variable like science,
right? And so I think it is just that
it's it's iterative in nature, which is
exactly what Nominal wants to be aligned
with, which is like how can we
drive that sort of like iteration? And I
think when you look at the hardware
development life cycle, testing is a
really good place to start. And then we
have this vision and and our customers
pull us in this direction already of
if I use a software platform data
platform in testing, I develop all of
the validation logic that governs that
that system's performance on a on a
specific test, that should be the exact
same set of logic that is easily
dispersed in an organization to the
production manufacturing sort of end of
line quality test, where I am just
automatically running in in Nominal we
we call them checklists, but like
validation logic uh essentially. And
then I should also be able to deploy
that to the edge, to this, you know,
hardware system. And so almost like
Nominal core our our core product
becomes like the authoring hub of all
logic that governs the performance of
physical systems and I can sort of
version control it and and deploy it at
the edge. And for people in the audience
who are software engineers, I just want
to clarify cuz hardware testing is so
rich and it's one of the things that
I've come to really appreciate as
someone who comes from a more pure
software background. You know, when I
think of software testing, there's
something as basic as like a unit test,
which is just like so simple and
deterministic. And even like richer kind
of like end-to-end or production level
testing in software, um it just pales in
comparison. Like if you are building an
aircraft and you were performing a
flight test, like the test still
involves there's a physical machine,
there's hundreds of people involved,
there's someone like in it who's flying
and so that you might do pre-test to
make sure that that's safe. It's just
you know, it actually becomes closer to
what you might think of as like a
quote-unquote production use case coming
from world like software.
>> Totally. And then to your earlier point
on physics gets a vote, testing does
seem like you know, where the rubber
meets the road and like does the thing
behave as expected, which is really all
that matters.
Um my AI brain immediately helps to
what an interesting data set you're
collecting there, right? Cuz you you
know have data across customers on
different configurations, different
design patterns and like how they
actually perform in tests. And so can
you talk a little bit about do you have
designs about going further into kind of
pushing
AI research in that space or or not?
>> And I'd say like we we are Nominal is
already in use, you know, with companies
that are that are doing uh you know,
model like sort of physical model
development um
and training these sort of models. And
and where Nominal where we started to be
really valuable for these customers is
an interesting insight for us was um
there's so much um I think that you have
to
sort of like
what's a good way to say it? You have to
um be able to sort of like separate out
when you are testing the performance of
models on hardware systems. And so
Nominal it turns out I think that we are
really good at doing is automatically
finding anomalies in in data. And so for
cus- for customers that are that are
trying to figure out does
am I collecting good data to then inform
the development of my model um in a
robotic system, let's just take a
robotic arm for example, simple example.
Um
there could be issues with the servo,
issues with the motor, issues with the
physical performance of that system that
are actually going to make all of the
data you collect bad. Um it's so Nominal
is sort of running in the background
actually saying, "Hey, of the 120
second, you know, test where this
robotic arm folded a piece of laundry.
Uh actually only, you know, this
percentage of data did we have like
high-fidelity confidence that the actual
physical telemetry and components were
performing at, you know, within
calibration, within standard. Therefore,
you can extract those pieces of data to
go into sort of like actually training a
model. And that's just like that's the
sort of crawl step of this. But yeah, I
think we we um
we're we're getting more and more
involved with that um with our customers
and think that we'll be sort of a an
integral part of that stack and an area
where they frankly don't see um don't
see it as a differentiated capability
that they would want to build
themselves. It's hard to and and they
are sort of their proprietary IP is is
developing the model itself. But like
nominal, I think the ability for us to
derive insights across many of those
like use cases, I think is going to be
helpful for customers to bring them.
Like you know how in the clothing space
there's like the the verification
agents? It seems to me like you guys can
almost almost be like the verification
agent that assists in the in each
company's development of its design
agent, so to speak. Yeah. Yeah, I mean
this is the analogy that I'm the most
excited about, which is like it would be
amazing to have unit testing for
hardware. But part of why agents have
gotten so good in the world of coding is
just because things are verifiable. And
so like that learning loop can go really
fast. And it would be a huge dream to
have that for hardware, but I think it's
necessary to build, you know,
essentially like test and validation
infrastructure to get there. Yeah, makes
sense. You You brought up the robotic
arm example. Um so I have to ask, do
most companies have separate hardware
and autonomy teams that you observe
today? And then
is it separate hardware and autonomy
stacks do you serve one side of the
house only, both sides of the house?
Yeah, well we see it let's pick the
robotic arm one and and keep unpacking
it. I think what we see is we kind of
see
uh no pun [laughter] intended but we see
we often see three teams that are having
that have three different stacks
and depending on if the company actually
manufactures its own, you know, robotic
systems. But there's a manufacturing
stack
and there's a manufacturing team. So,
the people that are actually assembling
the robot, it could be, you know, even
that digital thread could start at a
supplier, you know, in their onsite, you
know, doing the final construction. But,
there's a manufacturing team. There's
normally like an R&D team that does a
lot of uh
prototyping, kind of experimentation, um
more of what we were talking about, the
sort of model development use cases.
Then, there's generally like
a customer-facing team. So, fleet
operations, uh they're trying to observe
how the robotic system is performing out
in the wild, collecting all of that, you
know, onboard telemetry information. So,
three different teams and three
completely different stacks. And so,
it's been really interesting to come
through and and work with customers to
actually find the the way that Nominal
spans all three of those use cases and
how powerful that is. We talk a lot
about continuous hardware testing. Like,
it's it's a term that we we speak
internally about at Nominal and
externally. And so, being able to have
that sort of invisible thread between an
anomaly here or an issue that happened
with the robotic system deployed in the
field, where that comes back to the R&D
team, they can quickly triage it. And
then, if it if it does derive from a
physical component, you know,
malfunction or something that's out of
calibration, you sort of follow it all
the way back. Like, I think um that's a
a big area where where Nominal plays.
Yeah, I would say that like a a word
that our users care a ton about is just
traceability. Like, they always want to
understand like, where did this part
come from? What test did it undergo? And
the cataloging, and that just gets
really, really complex at the scale of
systems that our um customers are
building. So, if you're building an
aircraft, you know, it's not the case
that you can have every single subsystem
go through every single test all the
time. It's just too expensive. You don't
have enough budget, time, resources. And
so, keeping track of that is like
fundamental to doing good hardware
engineering work. So, today you can have
basically plug code write substantial
software.
What do you think is needed we can have
an AI system design,
manufacture, test, monitor,
and sort of come up with new hardware
from scratch?
Try to vibe code an airplane.
Maybe the airplane shouldn't be an
airplane. It should look something
different, especially if we want
vertical lift airplanes.
It's one of the things that I talked
about when I'm like trying to hire a
team. Like when I'm trying to say like,
"Hey, like if you're a software
engineer, like come work on Nominal."
It's like we've all spent so much time
building the internet, and the internet
works like pretty well, but we're still
really far away from being able to vibe
code an airplane.
Um like I think about like right now I
can't I have to assemble IKEA furniture
myself at home, right? Like it would be
great to have that problem solved, and
that's like such a microcosm of saying
like, "Hey, can I design my own IKEA
furniture at home?" So it just feels
like there's like many, many steps
between where we are today and being
able to like vibe code hardware, but a
lot of them come back to whether it's
like the feedback loop of like, "Is this
thing working or not?" Or even just
like, "How do we even have training data
sets to do hardware AI research?" Like a
lot of it comes back to the problem of
like data collection, data cleaning,
data standardization, um which is, you
know, again, like really where we're
focused.
>> But if they if a company uses Nominal,
they have if they integrate all the
data, they have the data from the test,
they have data from all different
designs perform, they have data from all
the contexts on how something was made,
shouldn't it be able to sort of learn
from all all of that? Yeah, I think so.
Like I like I think about um
uh
I was talking to someone this week
about, you know, when a test is
happening, like even just the audio data
of like the operators talking to each
other during that test, like that's a
really valuable data set to collect and
start to, you know, incorporate into a
platform like Nominal. I think before,
you know, AI tools like that would seem
like a little bit too much effort, like
the bang for a buck wouldn't be there.
But now it's like, "Oh, of course we
should do that." Like that should all
just kindly be brought into one place
and I I think over the next couple years
I'm excited to see what's unlocked by
just even having the data asset
collected.
>> one one
there's a lot of like really frontier
work I think happening in
a lot of the modeling and simulation
side CFD
fluid dynamics. Like people are are
picking apart. I think the the testing
world is one where um
it's
I think we're doing it. Like nominal is
the one that is going is going to do it
and and I maybe I'll answer the question
to you by giving a vignette of some work
that we're doing some pretty frontier
work we're doing with the US Air Force.
So we are
working with them working with DARPA the
defense defense advanced research
projects agency on this really cool
effort
called Cypher. It stands for cyber
physical systems executing in real time.
It wouldn't be the you know, defense if
it wasn't a lot of acronyms, but
essentially
for for those kind of listening in quick
high-level about like what the test
engineering looks like
for
major airplane or or or weapon system
sort of development. Um the it's this
giant matrix of very deterministic test
points that need to be satisfied. So my
my system needs to be between you know,
this and this value during this
condition and it's just literally this
giant matrix that that kind of is burned
down very sequentially often over over
the course of years. What this effort is
is getting at is actually involving AI
agents that
in sort of faster than real time are
paired with digital twins and that
recommend the next best sort of test
condition sort of like knowledge
maximizing next test condition extremely
quickly. So rather than like run a
flight go fly collect data see if I met
one discrete deterministic test point
land look at data say yes do it again.
Actually now that especially the systems
themselves are autonomous, you can have
like really high endurance. And so, in
sort of again, real-time or faster than
real-time, sort of uh change the
paradigm of testing from a matrix where
I like discreetly go through to a
actually is just sort of like a a
gradient curve where I am sort of like
um always adjusting my vector extremely
quickly and and sort of retraining my my
model and and updating the digital twin
sort of physics informed surrogate model
of like what the world is. Um that's
really cool. And I think like that is
that is the nirvana that we're like
getting towards. And I think like it
it's we're seeing it in in sort of the
earlier design phases again, but I think
it's just been really hard to do in in
the test world. But like the fact that
we are
working I think hand-in-hand with uh the
government on this where like they have
access to test ranges and and
infrastructure that that make this stuff
possible is is really exciting for us.
How advanced is our defense department
on the use of AI or not advanced? Yeah,
it's interesting. I think um this
administration particularly has been
like very forward-leaning on AI. So,
it's actually been, you know, there it
used to be um AI used to be sort of a a
disqualifier almost from some uh
contracts, some sort of opportunities um
just because it's it's we talk about
nominal as like the epitome of
mission-critical applications. You don't
want um experimentation. Jason,
sometimes we have a Slack channel where
we'll post, you know, we use coding
agents and tools as well. And um they're
really good for a lot of like front-end,
you know, React components and different
things. But the some of the
recommendations for some of the like
back-end uh
you know, things our team will like
laugh at and be like,
"If we had merged that, it would have
been really bad for the customer." So, I
think like there's good reason to have
some sort of, you know, skepticism, but
that's changing quickly. Um so, I think
like the yeah, the the department is
like really leaning into
uh more and more experimentation here.
Um the sort of collaborative combat uh
autonomous aircraft platforms are really
like pushing the frontier. We we have
worked closely with Anduril um and some
other vendors on on that project. So,
I'm I'm inspired by
no pun intended the gradient
of like where we're going.
>> [sighs and gasps]
>> Okay, simplify your business to
collecting data, visualizing it,
analyzing it, iterating it, report on
it, then
isn't that perfect for agentic AI?
Yeah, I think if you think about the
loop that is hardware testing, there's a
ton of different like every single point
in that process could be accelerated.
So, earlier I talked about like there's
some tedious aspects of data review.
And I would say like one of them is
reporting where once you already have
the data analyzed, if you the electrical
engineer who's designing a battery
subsystem have already kind of done the
like interesting parts that extract from
your brain only the things that you know
about like, okay, how do I take these
input channels and actually synthesize
it into the did the system perform what
I think it should have performed or not
in a way that my team can understand,
the VP can understand.
Now, at this point other people might
want to
ask that question and get it into like a
certain PowerPoint slide format so that
they can disseminate it or you know, and
and literally in some cases it's like
there's a PDF that I must ship to the
our customer at least someone who's
purchasing this. Like yes, like AI can
like accelerate all of that.
Yeah, I think I I mean I get excited um
by the the shift of the paradigm. We
sometimes internally talk about like it
used to be that 50 humans would be
involved in the testing and validating
of like one physical hardware product. I
think right now we're sort of in the
like that changed from a ratio to like
one to one. But, like how do we get to a
world where one human can sort of be
using like agentic tools in in this
space using nominal can sort of be doing
it in parallel for 50 systems. And what
does that kind of look like? And so,
we've already built really, really
interesting and powerful things in our
in our system Um, just where you can
have that sort of like chat interface,
LLM interface where you're saying things
like, "Hey, plot the kinematics of the
drone." And that's just like a really
simple example, but on the building
blocks that that Nominal sort of has
like um, you know, users' eyes sort of
light up when that's just a task that is
extremely manual that they would have to
go through. Um, but there there's still
these areas where I think like human
human insight has been really key and
we're trying to build um, one way to
look at it is like we're trying to build
a massive data set of the human-enriched
like data, which is I think um,
you know, mechanical engineering
masters, PhDs like enriching this data
um, and doing it in Nominal is um, is a
powerful asset. Totally.
What inning do you think you are in
terms of AI in your product? And if you
were to, you know, zoom out to AI
Nirvana for for Nominal, what does that
look like?
I'd I'd say it's like still early
innings just like thinking about how
much has changed even just the last 3
months. Like I I think um, I'm someone
who's just like 12 months from now I
hope we still think that we're in the
early innings because if we don't then
we're probably not humble enough about
just like what's coming around the
corner. Um,
but I think about like the the features
that we've added today and uh,
you know, I think we could have twice as
many software engineers at Nominal
building AI capabilities and still like
discovering new things that our users
might find exciting. Um, so one thing I
was like uh,
joking about earlier is like do we need
like a a money ball for hardware testing
where it's like if you're watching a
sports game there's like always these
very obscure stats like oh, if this
person completes this
play then they'll be the third best
I obviously don't watch a lot of sports,
but uh,
>> [laughter]
>> but but seriously like um, when we talk
to our our customers, you know, one of
the reasons they like Nominal is like
we're putting more data in front of more
eyeballs than they're used to having
going on in their organizations and what
that leads to is someone notices
something that uh, you know, when you
catch in that moment, it only takes you
30 minutes to address something that's
going wrong versus if it went unnoticed,
you know,
it could lead to something exploding and
then it's like 2 days of like the entire
company being shut down from their like
most critical test campaign.
Um
and when you just again, like the
volumes of data are only going up as
these systems get more complex, it makes
a lot a lot of sense to have
uh agents kind of like monitoring almost
as like pair programmers in your control
room as you're doing these high-skill
tests and saying like, "Hey, like you're
not looking at this, but relative to the
last 50 times you've done this, it's out
of family and like it's probably worth
someone investigating." Yeah, got it. I
guess if you zoom out to the this like
AGI future, Mhm. um
uh you know, hardware company of the
future, what does the hardware company
of the future look like? I have a thesis
that actually I think that we're going
to we're entering a period where there
is going to be
uh much more
obviously I believe this from a business
perspective, but much more hardware
testing. So, I actually think that we
are like the pendulum is going to swing
back. I think we are coming to uh grasp
with how little we actually understand
about how physical systems operate in
the world and how like lacking we are
from a data perspective. Um and so, I
think companies are building more and
more hardware. I think we're like that
it's going to be a a race to try to like
collect this data and actually develop
these these models. I think it's very
it's good it's good for nominal. I think
eventually that's going to like come
full circle where um the best way to to
build a hardware product is like is
minimizing the amount of real-world
testing, but it's a world where you
have, you know, AI agents working along
that very simple sort of the steps you
laid out in in hardware product
development, like optimizing each of
those steps and then and then optimizing
sort of the steps between those and
actually being able to link
um the design space to the the test
space with like, you know, agentic
reasoning across like how do I optimize
testing of the system in the smallest
amount of time possible and and only
preferably do it once, Like, pre-train,
pre-simulate everything, and then run
that sort of like agentic test agent
across my physical system and hopefully
get 100% you know satisfaction. But, I
think we're far away from that. Um and I
think to get there, there's going to be
like this huge explosion of uh of the
need for more
uh testing and more you know fusion of
real-world test data and and model
outputs.
I always think of it as like if you have
AGI designing like a video game for your
child, like you might let them play it
without it being like rigorously tested.
It's just a video game. But, if you had
AGI like building a toy for your child,
you would like really want to make sure
that it wasn't physically dangerous.
It's like the physical world will just
always be different cuz it's what we
live in. Yeah. Do you think all hardware
companies will become like physical AI
companies?
I think yes. I think like in the sense
that I mean at least I hope that you
know the design, even the generation,
the manufacturing, like as all of these
things hopefully become accelerated by
more sophisticated AI tooling,
um
it will you know, I hope that people's
creativity is unlocked in the physical
world in the same way that it is in the
software world right now.
Because most hardware just does one
thing and one thing well.
It It should be a lot more flexible.
Yes. Yeah, I think that's I think it's a
really good point, Alfred. I think like
um
the ability to unlock yeah, I think more
more versatility and uh I'll give like
the present-day simple example, which is
like if you talk to people um
they'll often cite uh I think it's like
the the F-18. I'll give another federal
example, but uh the F-18, it's a jet. Um
like the the limitations and
inefficiencies of that vehicle as a
result of the process in which it was
tested, there's like all this extra
stuff on it. The way the like rear fins
are mounted is like any aviator would
say it's like a very inefficient sort of
vehicle. And I think that's just like an
interesting example of like what you get
when you have the worst
uh test process. But, I think think
about close your eyes and squint like
when you have the best test process, I
think you can actually build in
a lot more flexibility and versatility
into the end product, which will be
really really interesting. That's
fascinating. Why why not just take all
that data, all the reasons that it
became efficient, feed that into an AI
model and say let's strip out all the
things you don't need from that from
that F-18? Yeah. I mean, I'm sure I
don't actually I don't know this to be
true, but I
I've talked to some pretty emboldened
people that I think are
trying to do that type of like work by
example. I think to to showcase. And I
think that fits, you know, in line with
some of the efforts that we are working
with um
as much as we talked about what the
status quo tools are, there are people
pushing the frontier there right now
both at, you know, the primes and other
places.
You both graduated from MIT.
What Why would a person graduating from
MIT Why should they join Nominal?
Mhm.
>> [clears throat]
>> I mean, I think that you know, Cameron
talked about 20 years of SaaS-ification
and one of the things I'm really
passionate about right now is just that,
you know, for our customers' use cases,
like the running of software, like you
have to think about the laws of physics.
Like physics gets a vote not just in did
this hardware system work or not, but if
you have a scale of data that is too
expensive to ship to AWS, and that's net
like crunching that data is necessary to
determine do your physical system work
or not, you have to just like operate
with a set of like software and
computing principles that a lot of
people have moved away from. But, you
know, I think if we're really, you know,
ambitious, like it sounds like this room
is about like where physical AI is going
to go in the next 10 or 20 years, like a
lot of people are going to spend a lot
of time thinking about their problems.
So, Nominal's, you know, I I think we're
on the leading edge of like where, you
know, software engineers are going to
disproportionately be spending time in
the next decade.
Are you guys ever going to build
hardware yourself? I think yes. I think
No, I'll just give my take on Karen
smiling already, but
we shouldn't like play all of our cards,
but
the supply chain of hardware data is
like really what we spend a lot of time
thinking about. So, you have the you
know, the source of the data would be a
sensor and then it goes all the way to
you know, you're crunching it, you're
giving these reports to people who can
actually apply their human judgment to
is it safe to launch the satellite. Um
Now,
how do you get better and better at like
managing that supply chain? It's like
probably by touching every part of it. I
always say that we have to like earn the
right to capture data. Like we have to
make our users' lives better. We can't
just say like hey, you have to use this
tool because it gets the data cataloged
in the right way. We say like hey, you
should use this tool cuz it will
actually
you know, it'll shave an hour off your
day. Oh, by the way, it also catalogs
your data in a way that's like or like
organizationally beneficial. And when I
think about those workflows and like
pulling the thread all the way, how do
you reduce the number of steps involved
in this person's uh you know,
labor, it eventually gets to hardware.
I was smiling um
just cuz I Jason said yeah, I don't want
to play all the cards, but um it's
something that I
I think is going to be happening sooner
than later. So.
Our partner Shawn would be beaming right
now. He constantly reminds us that
hardware is the only moat. And not only
do you guys sell to hardware companies,
it sounds like there might be some
interesting things up your sleeve.
>> a lot of I think very unique insights
there. Um and yeah,
um we're further along there than than
we might be letting on. So. Wonderful.
Well, I think it's an incredibly
exciting time for the fit for hardware,
for the physical world, for physical AI.
And um it's inspiring to see you all
build a company around it and you know,
build the the GitHub equivalents that's
going to just radically transform the
professionalism, the reliability, the
speed of all the engineers who are now
inspired and galvanized to go off to
space. So, congratulations to you all on
on what you've done and excited to see
what you continue to build. Thanks so
much. We say all systems nominal. All
systems nominal.
>> nominal.
>> Thank you. Thank you.
>> [music]
[music]